In this lesson, we're going to have a look at the sticky sessions behavior and see how it works in
real life.
Back in the issue to management console, you should still have your two instances running from earlier
in this section.
And these are in two different availability zones.
Now, what I want to do now is just pop down to target groups and tag Albi.
It's the target group that these instances are actually registered to.
Now under attributes, this is where we can enable stickiness.
Now, before we do that, let's just quickly take the load balancer DNS and in a new browser tab, I'm
going to paste this in hit enter and I'm going to hit refresh on my browser.
And every time I refresh, I should move between these two different instances and UX 1a and 1b.
And you can see that's working.
So coming back to EC2, let's go to target groups TG Albi attributes and then edit as a couple of things
I want to mention while we're here.
One is the load balancing algorithm.
By default, the load balancer will select targets to distribute connections to in a round robin fashion.
So it's just going to connect to one.
Then the next one, then the next one, and it will attempt to make the distribution even in that manner.
You can also choose least outstanding requests, and this will actually see how many requests are outstanding
for a load balancer.
So there's a bit more intelligence in working out what load your particular S2 instance actually has.
I'm going to leave it on round robin, and here we have stickiness under stickiness type.
You can see there's two different types of cookie that we can enable.
One is called a load balance that generates a cookie and is an application based cookie.
Now, actually, both of these are generated by the load balancer.
They're not generated by the application.
The key difference is with a load balance that generates a cookie.
The cookie name is always IWC Albi.
So if you have multiple layers of load balancer in your architecture, then the cookie name is going
to be the same and that can be a problem.
You can then use an application based cookie and then for each target group, you can specify a different
cookie name.
We're just going to leave it on load balancer generated cookie and save changes that might take a few
seconds to actually update in the background.
But let's now go across to our web browser, and I'm going to refresh and I'm hitting refresh and nothing's
changing.
So we're actually stuck now to the easy two instance in U.S. East 1B.
So that's it.
That's how sticky Sessions actually works.
And that's it for this lesson.
All I'm going to do now is just go back and disable sticky sessions because we do want to use this low
balancer and this target group again.
And I do want it to go back to dynamic.
So that's it.
For now, I will see you in the next lesson.